BUILDING.md, before:

## Windows

1. Get [MinGW installer](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files/Installer/mingw-get-setup.exe/download), and install the following with the package manager:
  - gcc
  - lua
  - sdl2
1. Install msys
1. Add mingw/bin and msys/bin to system path
1. Open msys/bin/msys to open command line

```sh
./build.sh
./play.sh
```

## Mac OS X

- Install [Command Line Tools for XCode](https://developer.apple.com/downloads/) (you need an apple developer account, free)
- Install Lua 5.2

  ```sh
  curl -R -O http://www.lua.org/ftp/lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
  tar zxf lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
  cd lua-5.2.0
  make macosx test
  sudo make install
  ```

- Install SDL2
  - [Download](https://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL2-2.0.3.dmg)
  - Copy SDL2.Framework to /Library/Frameworks/

```sh
./build.sh
./play.sh
```

### Creating the Mac Bundle

I don't actually understand how Mac builds work currently.  I am piggiebacking
off TyrQuake's Makefile "bundles" task with some workarounds to compensate for
two things:

- The makefile expects 32bit and 64bit Lua installations to be available (I only know how to install one at a time)
- The Launcher isn't trying to use its bundled SDL2.Framework folder

So these are the wonky, unautomated steps to build the mac bundle:

1. go to lua 5.2 folder (from previous section) and
   modify src/Makefile lines 22-23 to force a 32bit build.

    ```
    MYCFLAGS= -arch i386
    MYLDFLAGS= -arch i386
    ```

1. build and install lua (from previous section)
1. go back to this project's engine/ directory, and run `make bundles`
1. it should succeed with the 32bit build, but fail when linking the 64bit build.
1. Rebuild/install lua with 64bit, with the following edits:

    ```
    MYCFLAGS= -arch x86_64
    MYLDFLAGS= -arch x86_64
    ```

1. run `make bundles` again.
1. It should succeed with the 64bit, and fail when reaching the opengl build (that's okay)
1. The Bundle will be in dist/osx/Tyr-Quake.app
1. Run the following to allow Launcher to find its bundled SDL2 framework

    ```
    install_name_tool -add_rpath @executable_path/../Frameworks dist/osx/Tyr-Quake.app/Contents/MacOS/Launcher
    ```

1. Rename Tyr-Quake.app to Blinky.app

## Linux

- Install Lua 5.2

  - On Debian or Ubuntu:

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install liblua5.2-dev
    ```

  - Otherwise install from source:

    ```sh
    curl -R -O http://www.lua.org/ftp/lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
    tar zxf lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
    cd lua-5.2.0
    make linux test
    sudo make install
    ```

- Install SDL 2

  ```sh
  sudo apt-get install libsdl2-dev
  ```

- Install Xxf86dga

  ```sh
  sudo apt-get install libxxf86dga-dev
  ```

```sh
./build.sh
./play.sh
```

Commit message:

qtx_meson: update build.sh and BUILDING.md for using meson

BUILDING.md, after:

## Windows

1. Get [MinGW installer](http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw/files/Installer/mingw-get-setup.exe/download), and install the following with the package manager:
  - gcc
  - lua
  - sdl2
  - meson
1. Install msys
1. Add mingw/bin and msys/bin to system path
1. Open msys/bin/msys to open command line

```sh
./build.sh
./play.sh
```

## Mac OS X

- Install [Command Line Tools for XCode](https://developer.apple.com/downloads/) (you need an apple developer account, free)
- Install Lua 5.2

  ```sh
  curl -R -O http://www.lua.org/ftp/lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
  tar zxf lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
  cd lua-5.2.0
  make macosx test
  sudo make install
  ```

- Install SDL2
  - [Download](https://www.libsdl.org/release/SDL2-2.0.3.dmg)
  - Copy SDL2.Framework to /Library/Frameworks/

```sh
./build.sh
./play.sh
```

### Creating the Mac Bundle

I don't actually understand how Mac builds work currently.  I am piggiebacking
off TyrQuake's Makefile "bundles" task with some workarounds to compensate for
two things:

- The makefile expects 32bit and 64bit Lua installations to be available (I only know how to install one at a time)
- The Launcher isn't trying to use its bundled SDL2.Framework folder

So these are the wonky, unautomated steps to build the mac bundle:

1. go to lua 5.2 folder (from previous section) and
   modify src/Makefile lines 22-23 to force a 32bit build.

    ```
    MYCFLAGS= -arch i386
    MYLDFLAGS= -arch i386
    ```

1. build and install lua (from previous section)
1. go back to this project's engine/ directory, and run `make bundles`
1. it should succeed with the 32bit build, but fail when linking the 64bit build.
1. Rebuild/install lua with 64bit, with the following edits:

    ```
    MYCFLAGS= -arch x86_64
    MYLDFLAGS= -arch x86_64
    ```

1. run `make bundles` again.
1. It should succeed with the 64bit, and fail when reaching the opengl build (that's okay)
1. The Bundle will be in dist/osx/Tyr-Quake.app
1. Run the following to allow Launcher to find its bundled SDL2 framework

    ```
    install_name_tool -add_rpath @executable_path/../Frameworks dist/osx/Tyr-Quake.app/Contents/MacOS/Launcher
    ```

1. Rename Tyr-Quake.app to Blinky.app

## Linux

- Install Lua 5.2

  - On Debian or Ubuntu:

    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install liblua5.2-dev
    ```

  - Otherwise install from source:

    ```sh
    curl -R -O http://www.lua.org/ftp/lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
    tar zxf lua-5.2.0.tar.gz
    cd lua-5.2.0
    make linux test
    sudo make install
    ```

- Install SDL 2

  ```sh
  sudo apt-get install libsdl2-dev
  ```

- Install Xxf86dga

  ```sh
  sudo apt-get install libxxf86dga-dev
  ```

- Install python and pip3 (for meson)

  ```
  sudo apt-get python3 pip3
  ```

```sh
./build.sh
./play.sh
```
